---
title: Separate frontend and backend teams - AWS Amplify Gen 2 Documentation
source_url: https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/deploy-and-host/fullstack-branching/mono-and-multi-repos/
target_id: aws-amplify-nextjs
dependency: AWS Amplify Gen 2 for Next.js
collected_at: 2026-04-16T03:19:56.911095+00:00
kind: extracted-doc
---

# Separate frontend and backend teams - AWS Amplify Gen 2 Documentation

Source URL:

- https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/deploy-and-host/fullstack-branching/mono-and-multi-repos/

Dependency:

- AWS Amplify Gen 2 for Next.js

Collected at:

- 2026-04-16T03:19:56.911095+00:00

Direct links in scope:

- https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/how-amplify-works/
- https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/deploy-and-host/fullstack-branching/mono-and-multi-repos/
- https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/deploy-and-host/fullstack-branching/share-resources/
- https://docs.amplify.aws/nextjs/deploy-and-host/fullstack-branching/monorepos/

Captured summary:

- Separate frontend and backend teams - AWS Amplify Gen 2 Documentation Name: interface Value: Introducing Amplify Gen 2 Dismiss Gen 2 introduction dialog Amplify has re-imagined the way frontend developers build fullstack applications.
- Fullstack TypeScript Write your app's data model, auth, storage, and functions in TypeScript; Amplify will do the rest.
- 🚀 Built with the AWS CDK Use any cloud resource your app needs.
- Back to Gen 1 Docs Learn more about Gen 2 Separate frontend and backend teams ✨ Use with AI You might have different frontend and backend teams that maintain their own repositories.
- With Amplify Gen 2, you can deploy repositories that have backend-only code, so frontend and backend teams can operate independently of each other.

Extracted text:

Separate frontend and backend teams - AWS Amplify Gen 2 Documentation

Name:

interface

Value:

Introducing Amplify Gen 2

Dismiss Gen 2 introduction dialog

Amplify has re-imagined the way frontend developers build fullstack applications. Develop and deploy without the hassle.

Fullstack TypeScript

Write your app's data model, auth, storage, and functions in TypeScript; Amplify will do the rest.

🚀

Built with the AWS CDK

Use any cloud resource your app needs. Never worry about scale.

Back to Gen 1 Docs

Learn more about Gen 2

Separate frontend and backend teams

✨

Use with AI

You might have different frontend and backend teams that maintain their own repositories. With Amplify Gen 2, you can deploy repositories that have backend-only code, so frontend and backend teams can operate independently of each other.

Deploy the backend app

Run

mkdir backend-app && cd backend-app && npm create amplify@latest

to set up a backend-only Amplify project. Commit the code to a Git provider of your choice.

Connect the

backend-app

in the new console. Navigate to the Amplify console and select

Create new app

.

When you connect the repository, notice the only auto-detected framework is Amplify.

Once you choose

Save and deploy

, your backend project will build.

Deploy the frontend app

Now let's set up the frontend app and connect to the deployed backend.

Terminal

Copy

Terminal

code example

npm create next-app@14 -- multi-repo-example --typescript --eslint --no-app --no-src-dir --no-tailwind --import-alias '@/*'

Install Amplify dependencies.

Terminal

Copy

Terminal

code example

cd multi-repo-example

npm add @aws-amplify/backend-cli aws-amplify @aws-amplify/ui-react

To connect to the deployed backend, run the following command. To locate the

App ID

for your backend application, navigate to the Amplify console and select your

backend-app

. On the Overview page, the

App ID

is displayed under the project name.

Terminal

Copy

Terminal

code example

npx ampx generate outputs --branch main --app-id <your-backend-app-id>

This will generate the

amplify_outputs.json

file that contains all the information about your backend at the root of your project.

To validate that your frontend can connect to the backend, add the

Authenticator

login form to your app.

pages/_app.tsx

Copy

pages/_app.tsx

code example

import

{

withAuthenticator

}

from

'@aws-amplify/ui-react'

;

import

{

Amplify

}

from

'aws-amplify'

;

import

outputs

from

'@/amplify_outputs.json'

;

import

'@aws-amplify/ui-react/styles.css'

;

import

'@/styles/globals.css'

;

import

type

{

AppProps

}

from

'next/app'

;

// configure the Amplify client library with the configuration generated by `ampx sandbox`

Amplify

.

configure

(

outputs

)

;

function

App

(

{

Component

,

pageProps

}

:

AppProps

)

{

return

<

Component

{

...

pageProps

}

/

>

;

}

export

default

withAuthenticator

(

App

)

;

Let's also add an

amplify.yml

build-spec to our repository.

Copy

code example

version

:

1

backend

:

phases

:

build

:

commands

:

-

npm ci

-

-

cache .npm

-

-

prefer

-

offline

-

npx ampx generate outputs

-

-

branch main

-

-

app

-

id BACKEND

-

APPID

frontend

:

phases

:

build

:

commands

:

-

npm run build

artifacts

:

baseDirectory

:

.next

files

:

-

'**/*'

cache

:

paths

:

-

.next/cache/

**/*

-

.npm/

**/*

-

node_modules/

**/*

Now let's deploy the app. In the Amplify console, choose

Create new app

. Connect the repository with the default settings. You should see that the build generates the output and does not deploy a frontend. Validate that your app is working fine.

Trigger a frontend build on backend updates

The ideal scenario is that the frontend automatically retrieves the latest updates from the backend every time there is a modification made to the backend code.

Use the Amplify Console to create an

incoming webhook

.

Navigate to the

multi-repo-example

app, under

Hosting > Build settings

select

Create webhook

. Provide a

name

for the webhook and select the

target branch

to build on incoming webhook requests.

Next, select the webhook and copy the

curl

command which will be used to trigger a build for the

multi-repo-example

app.

Now update the build settings for the

backend-app

to include the

curl

command to trigger a frontend build any time there are changes to the backend.

amplify.yml

Copy

amplify.yml

code example

version

:

1

backend

:

phases

:

build

:

commands

:

-

npm ci

-

-

cache .npm

-

-

prefer

-

offline

-

npx ampx pipeline

-

deploy

-

-

branch $AWS_BRANCH

-

-

app

-

id $AWS_APP_ID

frontend

:

phases

:

build

:

commands

:

-

mkdir ./dist

&&

touch ./dist/index.html

-

curl

-

X POST

-

d

{

}

"https

:

//webhooks.amplify.ca

-

central

-

1.amazonaws.com/prod/webhooks

?

id=WEBHOOK

-

ID

&token=TOKEN&operation=startbuild"

-

H "Content

-

Type

:

application/json"

artifacts

:

baseDirectory

:

dist

files

:

-

'**/*'

cache

:

paths

:

-

node_modules/

**/*

Sharing schema type definitions

If you're using Amplify Data, we recommend adding a

paths

entry in the

tsconfig.json

of your frontend app that points to the

amplify/data/resource.ts

file in your backend app to easily access your schema type definitions from your frontend apps.

First, cone your backend repo into the same parent directory as your frontend app, then add the following entry:

tsconfig.json

Copy

tsconfig.json

code example

{

"compilerOptions": {

"paths": {

"@/data-schema": ["../backend-app/amplify/data/resource"]

}

}

}

You can then import the

Schema

type from this path in your frontend code to get code completion and strong typing for your API calls:

apps/admin-dashboard/page.tsx

Copy

apps/admin-dashboard/page.tsx

code example

import

{

generateClient

}

from

"aws-amplify/data"

;

import

type

{

Schema

}

from

"@/data-schema"

;

const

client

=

generateClient

<

Schema

>

(

)

;

const

createTodo

=

async

(

)

=>

{

await

client

.

models

.

Todo

.

create

(

{

content

:

window

.

prompt

(

"Todo content?"

)

,

isDone

:

false

,

}

)

;

}

PREVIOUS

Share resources across branches

NEXT

Monorepo setup
